There's good news and bad news!
Which do you wanna hear first?
Sounds like someone's been
watching overseas TV.
[HINA]
Answer the question!
Let's go with the bad.
The end yet approacheth.
Only seven days now remain.
And I'm here
studying like a fool.
So, good news?
The screenplay.
It seems Sora's final
draft is completed.
[YOTA]
Really. She finally did it.
And it's sure to be
an era‐defining
cinematic masterpiece!
Thy untoward affections
notwithstanding,
please do peruse it forthwith.
This is it.
So then, am I the first
person to read it?
And like, be honest.
[YOTA sighs]
That sigh felt dramatic.
Your script is
seriously awesome!
For the win!
And this setting!
Did you come up
with it? It's great!
With your talent, you could
take the movie world by storm!
Let's keep our
pants on, shall we?
Although, there is a lot
of fantasy stuff in here.
Can we actually shoot this?
Not absent the light
and magic of industry.
Yeah, I literally didn't even
think about how we'd film it.
[YOTA]
Hmm. So what now? Rewrite?
Nay, no need.
For fate hath granted
ye the perfect player
for the part of
the film's heroine!
Who do we know
who'd fit a humble,
kindhearted fantasy heroine?
Oh, you mean Izanami!
Dullard! The perfect
heroine is me!
You can't really
mean that, right?
Why not?
Well, because it's
obviously total nonsense?
[HINA chuckles]
My range shall surprise thee.
Leave it to me!
I'm not buying that at all.
For me nothing is
impossible, thou imbecile!
[YOTA] Oh, like messing up
a good script, you mean?
Nay. 'Tis a perfect role for me.
Sound good, Sora?
Yeah, that would actually
be a big help.
How now? Art thou convinced?
Well, what's the
minimum crew you can use
to get the movie done?
[SORA] We need a director,
a cam‐op, someone on lights,
someone on sound,
and a producer.
So that's five before we
get to the cast, and like,
isn't the film club just you?
How many of your friends
would be willing to help?
Everyone says they've gotta
do their summer homework,
but Jinguji doesn't have any
so maybe she could help out.
'Cept she's prob'ly super
busy with the ramen shop.
Heh. These obstacles be
not obstacles to a god.
What?
And thy labors in this
final summer on earth
shall not have been in vain.
Please explain.
[HINA] In our time together
we have formed numerous bonds,
and our good works
have benefitted many.
Yea, and verily at thy beck,
they shall surely rush
to thy aid, aid, aid.
Huh?
You mean I'm gonna have to drag
everyone I know into more crap?
[SORA]
Big bro. Please help me?
Right, then.
We're doin' this thing.
He's not well.
[YOTA]
Uh...
[YOTA] I can't believe
they showed up.
Oh my goodness,
look at all these people!
I get to play host, what fun!
Oh yeah, "what fun."
Hey, Narukami?
Did you mean to
invite the, um...
[YOTA]
Oh, right, the ex‐loan shark.
Yeah, that night was a real
wake‐up call for me.
But I'm on the straight
and narrow from now on.
Tell me what needs
doing and I'll do it.
No complaints.
Bro, you're all like,
cool and popular.
[YOTA chuckles]
So? What ridiculousness
is it this time?
Start talkin',
she's a busy lady.
[YOTA]
Be gentle! Uh...
We're making a movie and
I was hoping you'd help.
Sure, I can play the lead!
I'm even better
when I actually try.
Yeah. I meant financial help.
This is about money?
We just need enough
for the costumes!
And food and labor and
equipment and everything!
I'm a high‐powered attorney
with a packed
appearance schedule,
and you called me to your home
to beg for scraps to
fund your student film?
[YOTA] And of course we
also have an important role
for you in the movie!
Ugh. Well then, who am I gonna
be propping up in this show?
Me.
You joke. The little goblin
who calls herself a god?
Surely you don't imagine
you're silver screen material.
If such is thy estimate of my
skill, then I have fooled thee.
Really. Then you should
be good enough to recognize
when you're outclassed,
and not make a scene when
they give me your role.
Let us have it out!
Sorry about your film career.
Hey, director! We have a deal!
Oh. I'm not the director, ma'am.
[KAKO]
Huh? Then who is?
Uh. Yeah, hi.
Oh, right. From the festival.
Yeah, he's my
big brother and stuff.
[KAKO sighs]
Understood!
Believe me, dear, once we
get to work you'll soon
come to recognize the
value of seasoned talent.
‐‐And a good assistant!
‐‐Ma'am!
You look like
a pretty strong guy,
so we could have
you do the lights.
You're name's...
I'm Ashura Kokuho!
[YOTA] Hang on. How did we
end up with such a big crew?
It seems like I've made
a bunch of friends,
and I didn't even
notice it was happening.
[YOTA]
They all really came to help me.
Mom. I'm so happy.
I wish you could see it!
You totally can!
Was there no setup
to that punchline?
If the script's done,
you should make a storyboard.
But I totally can't draw.
That's not a problem!
It just needs to give
a sense of the pacing
and composition you want.
Okay, cool. I'll try it I guess.
Thanks for coming, y'all.
I'm glad to be working with you!
Now, let's do this!
Let's do this real good!
Can't say no to a pretty girl.
When you're ready to recast
the lead, I'm right here.
I'll help out any way I can.
Me, too.
Oh, yeah!
[ALL]
Yeah!
That's as far as we go
without a storyboard.
So let's call it for today.
Hear ye! Let us gather
around the console
that we might game!
[YOTA] But all these people
have real lives!
C'mon. Don't act like
you don't want a chance
to show Izanami your mad skills!
At games? What girl
would wanna watch that?
I think I'd like that.
You would?!
I'd like that, too.
Wait, you would?! Be gentle.
Thy thirst shan't be indulged.
You've been teleporting
everywhere freely.
But it's an enemy stronghold.
Why would they
help you like that?
If they break you down
into molecules,
why can't they just not
put you back together?
[YOTA]
I mean, hey,
maybe they didn't think
that far ahead, right?
Then they're morons.
Okay. Guess so.
But still, their witlessness
doth allow for
exciting gameplay!
Hey! Storyboards are
ready, everybody!
Sweet! 'Bout time!
[YOTA]
This is incredible, Sora!
It's like I'm reading a manga!
Blushing.
So, what's this story like?
Basically, there's a clumsy
girl from a small village.
But she possesses a
hidden skill of great power,
and it may be the only way
to fend off certain doom.
So this is the story of her
and her childhood friend
going on an epic journey
to save their world.
'Tis a timeless tale,
and one that's perfectly
suited to me, besides!
Hina's the heroine,
but who's the childhood friend?
Me!
No, you're the lighting guy.
[ASHURA sighs]
Yota? Why not you?
Huh? Me?
Ooh, yeah! That's a great idea!
Are you kidding me?
Agreed. As the lead pair,
we would work well.
Really, you too?
Well. Guess I'm in.
And the rest of us
can split up the bits.
On to costumes!
That's me. Do remember
to get a receipt.
[YOTA] I'll guard this
with my life, ma'am.
[HINA] Ohh. 'Tis quite
a fine costume indeed.
You're wearing
what you always wear.
And as always, 'tis plain
to see I'm a heroine.
[YOTA chuckles]
And... action!
[gasps] Ann! I heard
the Elder summoned you.
Do you have any idea
what he wants?
‐‐Nay, sir!
‐‐And stop!
Wouldst thou usurp Sora's role
and direct from thy mark?
The way you talk
makes even less sense
in this setting
than in real life.
The heroine
imminently approacheth
the plane of godhood.
'Tis but natural.
No, 'tis not!
This is still the "humble
beginnings" part of the plot!
Such a prima donna.
Director, art thou so concerned?
It's fine.
No, it so isn't fine!
Ann. I heard the
Elder summoned you.
Do you know why?
Nay! But 'tis no matter.
I'm off to practice my singing.
Join me, Romi!
[YOTA]
Of course.
You really do love to sing,
don't you, Ann?
[inhales]
[singing]
Stop! It's hideous!
Aren't you ashamed to
make those sounds in public?
You got some problem
with my singing, granny?
Easy now.
Ann's bad singing
is a part of the story.
Well that was
convincingly bad.
Was it on purpose?
You played the part so well!
It's like you're
really tone deaf.
Silence thyself!
Lest thou would incur
a god's wrath!
But can we get a take that's not
quite so out of tune, maybe?
Yea, if needs be.
Sora. One more, please?
Action!
[singing]
[footsteps]
[YOTA]
Hm?
Ann, what's wrong?
Why are you barefoot?
[HINA] Romi. In truth, I've been
summoned to the royal capital.
I learned from
the Elder yesterday.
Why, though?
I don't know, but they tell me
I'm the only one who
can save our world.
But why right now?
When will you be back?
My duty will be indefinite.
[YOTA]
Indefinite? You mean...
[KAKO]
Forgive me, young man.
But she shan't lay eyes
on this place again.
Hey! Now you sound like Hina!
Cut! Yota, can you, like,
please stop going off‐book?
[YOTA] Sorry, I couldn't
stay in character.
[KAKO]
Speaking of!
Why the hell did you
cast me as an old man?
Didn't seem to bother you
when you were doing your makeup.
And you, leave the
thee and thou crap to me!
We sound too much alike!
I won't.
Now, now, I understand,
but Hina's been working
hard on her performance.
So can you please find it in
your heart to let her continue?
[KAKO sighs] Fine, but only
because you asked me.
[YOTA]
Thank you and sorry.
[SORA]
All right, take two. Places!
Now time for the scene where
Ann messes up at cracking eggs.
Action!
I swear today shall be the day
I finally complete
my special cake!
Don't push yourself too hard.
Once more then!
[YOTA]
That was not acting.
[HINA]
And once more! Once more!
[gasps]
We can stop.
Nay, I shan't move from
here until I've succeeded!
[YOTA]
Whoa. She's not kidding.
Damnable eggs!
By what right do you‐‐
[YOTA]
It's okay, Ann.
I don't mind if you're clumsy.
I like you the way you are.
[gasps]
Uh, indeed these be
ill‐suited for baking,
but fine for scrambling!
For it would hardly do
to let food go to waste!
[YOTA] Well there's a little
bit of shell in there.
[HINA] Uh, yea, for to
fortify it with calcium!
[ASHURA]
Sorry for the wait.
‐‐Aye.
‐‐Thanks.
And take your time, bro.
Wait, what do you mean?
That boy told me that you
put your life in grave peril
to save mine, and did not waver
over the choice for a moment.
[YOTA]
Uh, when was that?
'Twas just at
the summer festival.
Too recent a memory to have
passed from even thy mind.
Oh, right. That deal.
Yet both our days are
numbered regardless.
Wherefore, then?
I don't think that matters.
You've done a lot for me,
and for all these people, too.
So of course I'd
want to help you.
[HINA]
Then it was some perceived debt
that compelled thy actions?
Well, I do owe you.
But really, it's more
that having you around
made this summer lots of fun.
I see.
[YOTA gasps]
But either way.
The world is ending
in a few days, right?
[HINA] It is indeed,
and shan't tarry for us.
And thou knowest well that
my predictions fail not.
That's sad. I wish it wouldn't.
Hey! Where's craft
services, you guys?
Uh, hi, Dad.
You're perfect!
[DAICHI]
Hm?
You have not been
able to ascertain
the cause of the world's ruin?
[KYOKO]
The mages are currently
endeavoring to investigate,
Your Majesty.
But we still need more time!
[KAKO] And yet there be no
more time to give, my king.
[DAICHI] Sir Levia. What exactly
are you trying to say?
Something deep in the abyss
beareth down on our world.
To gaze upon it would surely
grant the understanding
thou seek'st.
And cut!
Hey, Sora? The script
says they're supposed to be
in a temple for this sequence.
So will this work?
[HINA] 'Tis no matter
before the power of CGI.
Do we know how to do that?
'Tis the digital age
and free production
software packages abound.
This shall be but
a trifle to me.
And so, having composited
the image thusly...
You have not been
able to ascertain
the cause of the world's ruin?
[KYOKO] The mages are
currently endeavoring
to investigate, Your Majesty.
But we still need more time!
What temple is that?
They're just floating
up in the sky!
[HINA]
Then let us try another.
...cause of the world's ruin?
[KYOKO]
The mages are currently
endeavoring to investigate,
Your Majesty. But we...
[YOTA]
Now they're in Shibuya!
Why would they hold
an important meeting
in the middle of
a giant crosswalk?
Be this more to thy liking?
You have not been able
to ascertain
the cause of the
world's ruin?
[YOTA] What, is he leaping
through spacetime now?
And who even are
all these people?
My apologies!
These photos date to the
time of Sir Daichi's youth.
How could that be an accident?
[KYOKO]
The mages are...
[HINA] Lo, this backdrop
comporteth with our setting.
[SORA]
Wow, that looks legit!
[ASHURA] Hey, guys,
let's call it for today.
Huh. It has gotten
late, hasn't it?
Thanks for real, y'all.
And let's try and keep up
this pace tomorrow.
[KAKO]
Tomorrow?
How little do you think
my time is worth?
Wouldst thou abandon thy
claim to the leading role
and cede it to me uncontested?
Like hell!
I'll be on set bright and early,
you brat, that role is mine!
[KYOKO giggles]
I had fun today.
Sorry for interrupting
your test prep.
No, it's fine.
And honestly, you always seem to
be having so much fun with Sato.
It's really nice to see that.
Uh‐‐ Wow. I didn't realize
it looked that way.
I'm a little bit jealous.
Wait. Why would you be jealous?
Everything is packed, isn't it?
Bye, Narukami. Till tomorrow.
[YOTA]
Uh, mm‐hmm.
See you then.
[SORA] We crushed it
today, guys! Good work!
[HIKARI]
Great job team!
[LOAN SHARK 03A]
See ya tomorrow.
[ASHURA]
Later guys!
[HINA] On the morrow
we meet once again!
[CRONY 04A]
Ma'am!
[sighs] 'Twas an enjoyable day,
though taxing indeed!
There's a part of me
that still wants to study.
Like, is it really okay for me
to be having all this fun?
Aye, 'tis a sin to live so well.
Be you a mortal or a god.
Oh? So you do like it here,
and you admit it, too,
even though you're a god.
Uh‐‐ Speak not such foolishness!
Thy hovel is naught but a speck
next to the godly
realm of Asgard!
To compare thy conditioned
air to the hyperborean gales,
'tis like the breath of a baby!
[YOTA]
What's a "hyperborean"?
[HINA]
Thou dunce!
At thy age,
context clues elude thee?
Aw, come on!
Did this seriously slip
past all of you people?
What's that?
[HIROTO]
You confirmed the handwriting
in the visitor log
was Doctor Korogi's,
so did nobody notice
that he wasn't
on the security
camera in the lobby?
That seems worth
writing down, doesn't it?
[RAITA]
Hm. Good point.
Security won't know we're here.
I could go for a hot shower,
so let's make this quick.
[HIROTO]
Isn't it hot enough?
[RAITA] It's not too hot
for takoyaki, is it?
[HIROTO]
The flames of Hell itself
wouldn't be too
hot for takoyaki.
[RAITA]
It's miserable in here.
I'm steaming in this suit
like a giant lobster.
Hurry this up.
Like I'm enjoying it.
If we don't find the data now,
that has to mean
Doctor Korogi beat us to it.
Dammit all!
There's no way to
get to it from here.
Sounds to me like
you're all talk.
You shut your mouth.
I'm not giving up yet.
[RAITA] Why are you so
fixated on this facility?
My data points here.
There's zero doubt
the good doctor
was involved with this lab.
Betcha some takoyaki.
[RAITA]
That's a pretty cheap bet.
Not for me. [gasps]
[HIROTO]
Got one!
You do make an excellent goon.
[RAITA]
Excuse me?
[HIROTO]
What? It's a compliment!
We work well together.
[HIROTO] Research on
natural immune systems?
This isn't his field.
So why would the lab have
been involved with him?
Interesting stuff, but it has
nothing to do with Korogi.
[groans]
I think I might have
found something.
Oh! You most certainly have!
So this is the
professor's house, huh?
[RAITA]
It seems we're too late.
You two! This is an active
worksite, it's not safe!
Sorry, sir. Could you
please tell us
when this demolition started?
[WORKSITE FOREMAN 07A] Hm. Near
the start of the month I think?
This was the house where
my grandfather lived
until he passed, sir.
I hadn't been out
here in a while.
I was hoping to get
one last look at it.
I feel for ya,
but the work order's in.
Do you know what happened
with his belongings inside?
They came by just yesterday
and took them away.
Bad timing, bud.
Thank you!
[gasps] That's it! Go!
There might still be time!
Is this it? Hang on!
[WORKER 07A]
Hey! Who the hell are you?
Where's the stuff
you got yesterday?
[WORKER 07A]
Huh?
Tell me now!
They were demolishing a house
and your guys cleaned it out!
Oh, yeah, we did.
But we already put all of
that on the processing line.
Kid, wait!
[RAITA]
Hey. You can't‐‐
Don't!
[gasps] This is it!
Hey, I found‐‐
Whew! Wow, that was
really close!
Damn. I so could've died.
You would have, if I hadn't
been there to catch you.
[HIROTO chuckles] But at least I
finally tracked down his secret.
Right, Professor?